Hi.
Welcome to session 124,
Connecting Your Application with iChat.
My name is Jean-Pierre Ciudaad and I'm
part of the iChat engineering team.
And today is iChat's first
session ever at WWDC and
hopefully we'll have a lot more.
Thank you.
So what are we going to
be talking about today?
Well, first,
we're going to tell you how you can
use some of the iChat features and
integrate them in your application,
how you could do that in Tiger.
And then we'll talk about how
you can do that in Leopard.
And we'll talk about the additional
features we have in Leopard.
At the end of this session,
we'll have 15 minutes to
answer all your questions.
So please refrain to ask your
questions until the end of the
session-- of the presentation,
sorry.
And
This afternoon at 2:00 PM,
we will have a lab session where
you will all be able to meet the
entire iChat engineering team
and ask any questions you want.
The lab session will be
located in the Mac OS X lab.
So let's start right
away with iChat in Tiger.
So in iChat in Tiger,
you are able to use the
Instant Message framework to get
information about presence and status
of all your bodies in the body list.
We also had some limited
AppleScript support that
would allow you to log in,
log out, or send text messages and
also get account status and
information for all your buddies.
Now, in Leopard, we've done a lot more.
First,
we've extended the AppleScript support
to most of the iChat features,
and we're going to talk about
that extensively a little later.
In addition to that,
we've added a new API,
the iChat Theater API,
which is part of the
Instant Message framework.
iChat Theater is used to share your
application content using iChat,
and we're very excited about
this feature that you've
probably seen during the keynote.
And we're so excited about it that
we're going to spend at least half
of this session telling you how
you can do it in your application.
So video chats today are limited from
a person-to-person video conference,
or maybe one to two or three people.
What we've done is that we've
extended the video chat model to a
show-and-tell model where you can
actually talk about some content
and have a conversation about it.
So let me right away do a demo so you'll
know what I'm talking about in case
you haven't seen it during the keynote.
Can we switch to the demo machine,
please?
Thank you.
So what I'm going to do,
I'm just going to initiate a video
chat between those two PowerBooks here.
So here I'm talking to Eric and
what I'm going to do here,
I'm going to start a movie, an Apple ad,
you know, of course.
I'm going to stop playing it.
And I'm just going to go to the
menu here and say share with iChat.
And when I do that,
iChat automatically goes into iChat
Theater mode and starts showing the
content to the other applications.
So this is from my side.
So this is as simple as that.
So that's iChat Theater.
[Transcript missing]
Could we also switch the
screen to the presentation?
Thank you.
So--
iChat Theater is great when
you have a Leopard machine
talking to a Leopard machine,
but that's somehow limiting.
Especially now, I mean,
only you guys have the Leopard build.
So, what we've done,
we've added a replacement,
what we call a replacement mode,
which is sort of a compatibility mode.
So, when you use Leopard and
use iChat Theater and start
talking to a Tiger machine or
a Panther machine or even a
Windows machine that's using AM 5.9,
we actually replace the camera input
with the output of your application.
So, basically,
the entire screen changes to what
you're sending through your application.
So, that allows you to actually
take advantage of iChat
Theater even with machines that
don't know about iChat Theater.
OK, so some of the resources
that are available for you.
Again, I just want to reiterate Q&A at
the end of this presentation.
There is a website that I believe
contains information about
each session where you can find
documentation and sample code.
I would highly recommend that you go
back there and download the latest
information about this session
because we updated it last night.
So if you downloaded
it before last night,
you should go back and get new
sample code and new documentation
regarding iChat Theater.
You can also send us any feedback by
contacting Apple Developer Relations.
And as I said earlier,
you can come and see us at the lab
session today at 2:00 PM and meet
the entire iChat engineering team.
So let's start right away talking
about Instant Message Framework
and Apple Script Support.
Eric?
Thanks, JP.
Hi, my name is Eric St.
Onge, and today I'm going to talk to you
about the Instant Message Framework
and AppleScript and how you can
use it in your own application.
So to give you a rough overview
of the APIs that you can
use to interact with iChat,
there are roughly two
APIs that you can use.
The first is the
Instant Message Framework,
which as JP mentioned earlier,
you can use to get presence information.
And this API is available in Tiger.
New in Leopard is the IMAV Manager API,
which you can use to
interface with iChat Theater,
and we'll have someone
else talk about that later.
There's also an AppleScript API that
you can use to actually take control
of the iChat application itself.
So first, I'm going to start by talking
about the IAM service.
And I'll just give you an overview.
I'll talk about some of
the key points of the API,
and then I'll show you an example.
So the IAM service roughly provides you
with presence information about yourself
and other people in your buddy list.
But when I talk about presence,
what is it that I actually
mean by presence?
Presence is a term that
we use in iChat sometimes.
It might not make a lot of sense to you.
But presence is basically
the availability of
someone in your buddy list.
So if we take a look at a buddy
list here-- this is the new buddy
list in Leopard-- the presence
roughly corresponds to the
status gem that you see next to a
person's name in that buddy list.
And you'll see the status gem has
a different color depending on
whichever status the person has.
For instance, there's green,
meaning available.
There's yellow, meaning idle.
Or there's red, meaning away.
New in Leopard,
there is a white status gem,
which indicates an unknown status.
This is usually used for mobile devices.
And of course,
there's also no status at all,
which is no status gem.
But along with the status,
there's other information that you
can get from someone who's logged in.
For instance, the status message.
So if someone leaves a message with
what they're doing when they go away,
you can get that.
There's also a picture.
Or a buddy icon, as it's usually called.
You can get that and put
that in your application.
And there are some associated
capabilities that indicate what a
person is capable of doing over iChat.
For instance, this could be audio, video,
iChat Theater, file transfer,
or other capabilities.
And if someone has gone through their
buddy list and has added address book
cards associated with screen names,
you can actually get the full name of
the person from address book that way.
So today in Tiger and in Leopard,
there are already a few example
clients that we can point to for
the Instant Message Framework.
The first of which is
iChat's own Menu Extra.
So if you've gone into iChat's
preferences and enabled the Menu Extra,
you'll see a balloon in the
status menu of your system.
And if you click on the balloon,
you'll see the buddies who were logged
in to whichever service you select.
And you can pick a buddy and start a
chat with the buddy from that menu.
Mail and address book also use the
Instant Message Framework to indicate
the status of someone who's online.
So for instance,
if you receive an email message
from someone who might be online,
you'll see a status indicator
next to that person's name.
And you can then click on that to start
a chat with that person through iChat.
The same is true of address book.
And of course, we'd love to see this in
your application as well.
So if you're ever using
an address book card,
it might be appropriate to show a
status gem next to that person's name.
So the IM service roughly has a few
class methods that you'll need to know.
So if we go and we take a
look back at the Buddy List,
probably one of the key methods that
you would need to use is my status.
And this basically corresponds to
the current status that you have set
while you are logged in in iChat.
And this is basically the drop
down you'll see at the top of the
Buddy List and the status gem you'll
see at the top of your own Buddy List.
And you can query iChat for that and
find out what your current status is.
Additionally with that,
you can get an idle time.
So if you've been away from your
computer for a certain period of time,
you can get that information from iChat
if you want your application to respond
to do something after you've been idle.
You can also get a list of all
of the available services that
iChat is currently locked into.
Now, of course,
you could have one service.
And in Tiger,
you could have an AIM service,
a Jabber service, and a Bonjour service.
New in Leopard,
we've expanded it so that you
could have multiple Jabber
services or multiple AIM services.
And you can really add as
many of these as you want.
So I've got two in this example here.
But if you ask IAM service for all
of the services that are available,
it's always going to return you three.
This is kind of a key point.
So it's going to lump AIM services
together into a single
AIM service through the framework.
The same is true of Jabber.
Of course, there will always only
be one Bonjour service.
Through the IAM service,
you can also get a notification
center with which you can register
for notifications from iChat.
I'll talk about that in a minute.
Thank you.
So once you have an IAM service that
you've gotten through all services,
there's key pieces of information
that you can get from that as well.
For instance, the localized name.
So if you needed to display which
service someone is on in your UI,
you could get the name that way.
And of course, this is going to be AIM,
Jebre or Bonjour in English or
whatever language you're using.
It'll be localized.
You can also get the
status of the service.
So you see in the buddy list here,
we've got five buddy lists,
four of which are logged in
and one of which is logged out.
So if you were to ask
Bonjour for its status,
it would tell you offline.
If you were to ask AIM or Jebre,
it would tell you available.
If you had one AIM service
that was available and one
AIM service that was offline,
it's going to take the
most available status,
and it's going to tell you available.
You can also,
through the IAM service instance,
get a list of all of the screen
names that are currently logged
into that service by the info
for all screen names method.
This is just basically going to
return you a dictionary of everyone
in that buddy list that you can
then go through and figure out.
And you can also query a service
directly for the screen names that are
associated with that address book card.
So that's the first step.
So for notifications,
once you have a notification
center from IAM Service,
there are notifications that you can
receive when the presence changes.
There are several notifications
that you can register for.
The first of which is
service status changed.
This corresponds to when you log
in or log out of your own account.
So if you have an
AIM service that logs out,
you could respond to something by
listening for service status changed.
When someone else logs in or logs out,
you're going to get
person status changed.
And when someone else's
capabilities change,
for instance,
if they start an AV conference
or switch from available to away,
you're going to get person info changed.
And with each of these notifications,
you're going to get a user
info dictionary with keys that
correspond to different pieces
of information about that buddy.
For instance, the person's screen name
or the person's status.
And depending on the notification,
the dictionary will
be a little different.
For instance,
you're going to receive a person info
change notification very frequently,
so there's not a lot of
information that's going to
come through in that dictionary.
And you can look in the headers
and see which keys are available.
to you.
So let me give you a demo.
This is a demo that's a really
quick demo using Address Book.
So this is going to go through Address
Book and it's going to get all your
buddies who have screen names associated
with them and display it in a buddy list.
And then it's going to interface with
iChat and it's going to ask iChat
for the status information for those
people and it'll display a status gem.
So let me show you the demo.
So you can see over here I've already
got iChat logged into one account,
so I'll just launch AVPresent.
So now,
I have a new list over on the left.
This is AB presence.
And as you can see,
I've got a few buddies who are logged in.
And since iChat's already running,
it's going to go and show that status.
So if I go back to iChat and I log out,
you'll see the status changes just
as the person logs in or logs out.
And if I log back in,
you'll get the status jumps to reappear.
So the source for this demo is
available for you to download.
I would encourage you
to take a look at it.
The demo is using the
new Objective-C 2.0 API,
so you're not going to be
able to run it on Tiger.
But it should give you an example of
the things that you can do in a really
simple way to use it in your application.
So can I go back to these slides, please?
So moving on, I'm going to talk about
Apple Script a little bit.
Now, I'm going to give you an overview
of the framework versus scripting,
and I'll talk about when you're going
to want to use the framework and when
you're going to want to use scripting.
And then I'll just give
you an overview of the API,
and I'll talk about a new
feature of event handlers,
and I'll show you an example
to sort of tie it together.
So as I showed you earlier,
there are three APIs.
The AppleScript API is the one you can
use to control the application itself.
So as we said before, in Tiger,
there was really basic
AppleScript functionality in iChat.
You could log in or log out.
You could send a text
invitation or a text message.
And you could also query a buddy
list for people who are logged in.
But in Leopard, this has actually really
expanded significantly.
So let me just show you a
picture of the dictionary.
You don't have to really pay
attention to much of the dictionaries.
If you have a Tiger system,
you can just open this
up in Script Editor.
But just to show you just a
comparison of what changed.
This is the dictionary in Tiger.
As you can see, we've got a few commands
and a few classes.
This is the new dictionary in Leopard.
As you can see,
there are a whole bunch of new commands.
Thank you.
A whole bunch of new commands
and a whole bunch of new classes
that expose some new things.
And of course,
all the Tiger commands will still work
if you have scripts that use that.
So we're keeping that old API around.
There are new commands
to work with text chats.
You can actually get handles on text
chats and interface with them that way,
including chat rooms.
And there are also new commands you
can use to interface with AV chats.
So if you wanted to start recording,
for instance, one of our new features,
or if you wanted to go full screen,
you can toggle it that way.
So to talk a little bit
about the object model,
there are only three basic
classes that you need to know.
The first of which is a service,
and a service corresponds
roughly to a buddy list.
As you can see here,
we have five buddy lists,
and this will give you five services.
This is a little different from the
way the framework works in that the
framework will give you one AIM service,
one Jabra service,
and one Bonjour service.
The AppleScript API will
actually give you five services,
so you can actually get,
the different buddy lists
are exposed separately.
Of course, within each buddy list,
there are several accounts,
which is basically a
buddy in your buddy list.
So if we go into just a single one here,
you'll see that this AIM service
contains several accounts.
And then, of course,
what takes place between a
service and an account is a chat.
This could be a text chat or an AV chat.
So you see we've got a
text chat on the left,
a fairly stupid joke,
and then we have a text chat or an
AV chat on the right just taking place.
You can get a handle on that as well.
So sort of moving on.
So here's a sample script that you
could use to start a new text chat.
And just to sort of walk you through,
since some of you may not be
familiar with AppleScript,
it's basically a matter of going
down the hierarchy and telling the
right object the right command.
So first you're going to just
basically start-- the highest
level scope is iChat itself.
So you'll start there.
Then you'll tell the specific service
what you want to-- tell the specific
service that you want to talk to.
At that point, once you have a service,
you can start a new chat with a
specific account on that service,
with the start chat with account.
And once you've started that chat,
you'll get a handle to that chat back,
which you can then tell to do things.
For instance, in this case,
you can post a new
message into that chat.
So if you were to go and run this script,
this is going to go and it'll start a
new AIM chat with someone named my buddy,
and it'll post hello my
buddy to that person.
So to work with a video chat,
it's fairly similar.
Again,
you're going to start at the top level,
which is iChat itself,
and then a specific service.
At this point,
the command is a little different.
It's start video chat versus start chat.
And you can do the same
thing with an audio chat,
if you wanted to do that.
So once you've started that chat,
you'll get a handle to an AV chat object,
which you can then tell to do things.
So for instance, here,
the script will tell it to go
full screen and to start recording
once the video chat connects.
You can automate that through scripting.
So the API is fairly straightforward.
The syntax, as I said,
is mostly a matter of sending the
right command to the right object and
going down through their hierarchy
to find out what the right object is.
But new in Leopard, there's a scripting
bridge available as well,
since I'm sure some of you don't
know Apple Script or maybe aren't
the hugest fans of Apple Script,
that's fine.
If you like Ruby or Perl
or some other language,
there are scripting bridges
available that expose all of
this to you in your own language
or whichever language you like.
But realistically,
how many scripts do you need to
actually just go and start a new chat?
I mean, it's nice to do,
but probably not going
to use it all that much,
which is why we've introduced in Leopard
a new feature called Event Handlers.
An Event Handler is basically
an Apple Script callback when
something happens in iChat.
So as you can see here,
this is the dialogue that you'll
see in iChat's alert preferences.
And you can hook up an Event Handler
to any one of these events,
and I'll show you how.
So the event handlers are part of their
own new dictionary in the iChat suite.
And there's roughly a new command
corresponding to each event.
And the event handler syntax
is also fairly simple.
It's a little different from a regular
Apple script in that you're not
actually telling iChat to do something.
iChat is telling your
script to do something.
So instead of tell application iChat,
you're going to say using terms
from application for iChat.
At this point,
it's just a matter of copying in the
correct message handler or the correct
event handler that you want to use.
In this case,
it's a message received handler,
so with the message received,
you're going to get the
message that was sent in,
the buddy that sent it,
and a reference to the chat object in
which this conversation is taking place.
And once you've got that message,
you can do work with
that specific message.
And to install an event handler,
it's fairly straightforward.
What you need to do is you need to copy
an AppleScript file into tilde slash
library slash scripts slash iChat.
And then you need to set it
to run in iChat preferences.
So if you go to iChat's
alert preferences,
or if you right-click on a buddy and
get info and go to the Actions tab,
you'll see there's a new check
box that says Run AppleScript.
From that dropdown,
you can either pick an AppleScript that's
in tilde library scripts iChat,
or you can copy one in there
if there isn't one there,
or you can just go directly to
that directory and put one in.
And then moving on,
I'll show you a little bit of a demo.
This demo's going to be Eliza,
which some of you might be familiar with.
This is an old Lisp program that I think
has been around for quite a few years.
So what it's going to do is it's
going to take some input from a chat.
So if someone sends
me an instant message,
I'm going to take that message,
and I'm going to send it onto Eliza.
So for this demo, we're actually using a
Pro library called Chatbot Eliza.
So we're not actually writing
Eliza itself in AppleScript,
we're just using a Pro program
and running a terminal command.
So we're going to pass this onto Eliza.
We're going to take that text back,
and then send it back through
the instant message to sort of
simulate a virtual therapist.
And this is just using a message
received handler that processes
messages and sends it back.
So let me show you the demo.
OK,
so I've already got this system set up.
And I've already copied the
script into the correct place.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going
to go into the Alerts Preferences.
Then I'm going to go
into Text Invitation.
So Text Invitation is going to
be run the first time you receive
a text message from someone.
So what this one is going to do is
it's going to run-- when it runs,
it's going to accept an invitation
and sort of make it full screen.
So it'll get out of the notifier mode.
Then I'm going to go over to
Message Received and run the same script.
The script has two handlers in it.
And we'll run it that way.
So at this point,
Chatbot Eliza is already hooked up.
So if someone were to text message me,
like JP here, you'll see that Eliza is
just going to go and respond.
And conversation will take place really
without me even touching the machine.
So we can just let JP talk
to Eliza for a few seconds.
So that's kind of fun,
but sort of another thing you can do
here now is if we go onto the second
machine and we hook up the Apple script
on this one and then hook it back up,
we'll see that we'll have Eliza
chatting back and forth with itself.
Another thing you'll notice here is that
sort of as the conversation goes on,
some rate limiting is going to kick in.
So it's not going to just sort
of go full force both ways.
AOL is going to sort of
step in and prevent you from
sending too many messages.
And this sample script
is available for you.
Let me just shut it off here.
So we can go back to the slides.
So this sample code is
available to you for download.
You'll need to install the
Pro module to get it to work,
but the sample code is there.
Additionally,
we've included a few other samples,
including one to run in
iTunes remote control.
So as the bot receives commands,
it'll parse it, and it'll tell iTunes
to do something else.
So you could use iTunes remotely
if you wanted to do that.
There's also a message sent preprocessor.
So what this is going to do is it's a
message sent handler that's going to
go and look at the messages that you're
sending out and respond accordingly.
There's also some file transfer
automation that you can do.
We've added some new handlers and some
new commands in iChat to send files
and to deal with receiving new files.
And the sample we've given you will
take incoming JPEGs and pings and
import them into iPhoto for you.
I also just want to briefly talk
about security since I'm sure
some of you were concerned about
handlers running automatically
and losing control of your system.
So a handler to be run first
needs to be installed by a user.
You can't just touch a file in a specific
place or put anything in a specific
location to get a handler to run.
You're either going to have to go
through the UI and set it up yourself or
you're going to maybe have to mess with
the preferences to get something in.
But it's never going to install itself.
There's also, as you saw with Eliza,
there's some rate
limiting that'll kick in.
So you can't just go and blast out
thousands and thousands of messages.
AIM and some Jabber services will
actually prevent you from doing that.
It's just innate in the service.
And of course, there's also threat
analysis of file transfers.
I'm sure some of you are familiar
with Safari or Mail and iChat.
But when you get an incoming file,
sometimes you'll get a dialog that says
the file may contain an executable.
iChat's going to do that as well,
even if a file is received through
scripting or if there's a handler
running on an incoming file transfer.
So you're still going
to get that security.
And to get through that,
to move a file out of quarantine,
a user is going to have
to intervene and press OK.
So that was an overview of
the IAM Service API and the
AppleScript API in Leopard.
Now we're going to have Mike here to
talk to you about the iChat Theater API.
Thank you very much, Eric.
All right, my name is Mike Estee,
and I'm going to talk to you
about iChat Theater today.
So in this session,
I'm going to cover a few things.
I'm going to talk about
what iChat Theater is,
talk a little bit about what it
means from a user perspective,
and what we think the
interaction model will be.
I'm going to talk about how it works in a
little bit more detail and get down into
the video architecture and talk about how
you can use it in your own applications.
So first off, what is iChat Theater,
for those of you who are just showing up?
It's a new technology that
we think is pretty exciting.
It's a way for you to use your own
applications to present content
in a running AV conference.
You can show off slideshows
or 3D models or whatever it is
you really want to show off.
So to that effect,
I'm going to do a demo.
We'll get to Demo Machine 1 here.
So we've got a couple of sample
apps on the website here and
I'm going to show those to you.
So first off, I'm going to start a
conference here with JP.
Hey Mike.
Hey JP, how's it going?
All right.
And one of the demo apps that we've got
for you is this thing called PhotoPlayer.
And it's just a really
simple little application.
I just hit Play here and I can show you
some pictures of my vacation in Africa.
Just had a grand time.
So I want you to notice one thing
there is that the playback of the
slideshow starts as soon as the
slideshow theater presentation begins.
So we can do some synchronization there.
And another one of the little simple
apps we've got is this thing called
OpenGL Player and it draws a pretty cube.
And so I can just switch
over to OpenGL Player there.
Show off a little cube,
that's kind of cool.
Go back to my slide show,
switch back to that.
So whatever the last application
that started a presentation is
the one that will be showing
content in the running conference.
And so I've got another
little one that I did.
This is not on the DVD,
but I just thought it was kind of fun.
I'll call it.
So I've got this pretty seashell here.
I don't really understand
what that formula does,
but I can go and present
this in iChat and get some of
these windows out of the way.
So you can rotate that around,
show it off, you know,
it's the inside of the seashell.
So I want you to notice
something else here as well too.
So if I go and change the background
color of the content in my application,
the presentation stays white.
So you can actually have different
content showing versus what
you send to the other side.
So I could show the formula in
the presentation if I wanted.
[Transcript missing]
So we think this is particularly
well suited for things
like still image content.
If you saw the keynote,
you can show presentations.
It's particularly well suited
for video content as well.
So you can play video through
the iChat presentation as well.
And real time 3D.
And we'd also like to see
it in your applications.
Okay, so it's not as ideal
for things like text,
line art,
or other highly detailed content.
Currently frame size is limited at
320 by 240 and due to bandwidth,
the quality can vary.
So if you've got something
that's highly detailed like text,
you may want to add something that
allows the user to zoom in and
see things a little bit closer.
Okay, so now I want to talk a
little bit about our HI model.
So first of all,
presentations are always user-initiated.
This means your application should
never try and start one on its own.
There's only one application
that can present at a time,
and the last application to
begin a presentation is the one
that gets to show the content.
As I showed in the demo there,
your conferences can be
synchronized to the start of the
presentation or not if need be.
If you're doing like 3D content,
it doesn't matter so much.
You can just start.
So here's a little flow diagram
of a typical user presentation.
So the first thing you saw,
we start the video conference.
Then I'll switch over to your application
and begin a theater presentation
by pressing play or picking a menu.
So then we switch into a waiting
state where we're waiting for
the other party to accept.
This is where you would maybe
play a little animation,
show a little theater
curtain or something.
Just wait for the other
party to show up online.
And the presentation starts.
And I can go back to the application
and stop and pause content.
And then when I'm finished
with the presentation,
I can stop it in the application
and resume talking to the person
that I was talking to before.
Conference ends,
the presentation will also stop,
or you can go back to the
application and start another
presentation all over again.
So we've got synchronization.
Playback can be cued so you don't have
to actually wait until a conference
has started before pressing play.
You can start it in the application and
then go to iChat and invite somebody.
Works either way.
iChat will send notifications when a
conference starts or when a conference
ends so you can sync up your animation or
your drawing or whatever you need to do.
Okay, so how does it work?
We're using a couple of technologies that
many of you may not be familiar with.
We're using Core Video,
which is new in Tiger,
and it's a little bit
expanded in Leopard,
for doing video playback.
This is an efficient way
to get frames around.
And we're using Core Audio for
doing our audio playback.
So since many of you are probably
not familiar with Core Video,
let me talk about that for just a moment.
Core Video has a couple of different
types of frames that it uses.
There are CvOpenGL buffer frames.
These are used as backing buffers
if you're drawing in OpenGL.
And we've got CvPixel buffer frames,
which are just raster content-- you
get a row by its width and height,
and you just draw straight into them.
Buffers are one-time use.
You don't want to retain them.
You get a lot of memory usage
if you keep on retaining them.
And I encourage you to see the
documentation on the website and
check out more about Core Video.
So here's a brief little block diagram
of the iChat Theater video architecture.
So frames start out in Instant Message,
and we pass a frame through
to your application.
There are rendering callbacks that
we have where you do whatever it is
you need to do and do your drawing.
That frame is passed back
into Instant Message,
which takes it, hands it over to iChat,
and it's compressed and sent
out over to the network.
So for Core Audio,
we're planning to support
multiple audio channels.
For the current build that you guys have,
we only support the first
channel at the moment.
For GM,
we'll be mixing all these channels
together and compressing them and
sending them over the network for you.
So you don't need to do mixing yourself.
The audio device ID is provided
when the presentation starts.
And you can go and do what you
need to do with Core Audio.
Okay,
so now I'm going to get into a little
bit more detail about how you can use
iChat Theater in your own applications.
So there are a couple of things you
need to do before getting started.
The first is you've got to link
against the instant message framework.
Second thing is you have to
register as a data source.
We're using a data
source pattern for this,
which you're probably familiar
with if you've been using Cocoa.
Then I'm going to talk about how
you control iChat Theater from
inside of your own application,
how the rendering callbacks work,
and how you can provide video,
and how to update UI when
your state changes.
So you can find the
Instant Message framework in
the public frameworks directory.
And as Eric mentioned,
we've got a new class for Leopard,
which is the IAM AV Manager.
This is where all of the video conference
starting and stopping and everything
you need to do for video lives.
Okay, so first thing you need to do
is register as a data source.
So you're going to have some
object that does your drawing,
probably some class,
maybe an NSView or an OpenGL view.
And you're going to set this,
this is a method on the IAM AV Manager.
And you'll set the data
source and implement the
appropriate frame callbacks.
We've got two sets of frame callbacks.
We've got OpenGL-based ones
and raster image-based ones.
You want to pick whichever one is
most appropriate for your application
and only implement those callbacks.
Callbacks will be called
from a background thread,
so you'll need to do any synchronization.
You can use a fancy new object
to see 2.0 features if you like.
Or if you need to do all your
rendering on the main thread,
you can defer that.
And I'll show you how to
do that a little bit later.
Okay, so for controlling iChat Theater,
it's really simple.
There's not a lot there.
First thing you need to do is
register for an AD Manager state
change notification.
If you don't register for this,
none of your callbacks will be called.
So you need to make sure
to register for this.
And this registration happens
on the IAM service object.
Then we have Start.
This starts a presentation.
As soon as the conference
becomes available,
you can press Start.
You can query the state
with the state method.
And then Stop ends your presentation.
All right, so for starting callbacks,
as I mentioned,
you need to register on the
IAM Service Notification Center.
I've got a little example
of that right there.
Unlike a lot of other things,
the Instant Message Framework has
its own notification center which
it sends out all notifications on.
So if you registered against the
regular one and you're wondering why
you're not getting any notifications,
this is why.
So when state becomes IAM available,
as in you can begin a presentation,
just call start,
and then your callbacks will begin
as soon as the conference accepts.
So here's a little block
diagram of the states.
So we get out with "not available."
This means that either iChat's
not running or for whatever reason
video conferencing is not available,
so you can't begin your presentation.
And as soon as the user logs in or
video conferencing becomes available,
the state will switch to
"available." This means that
you can make the start call.
And it doesn't necessarily mean
that a conference is running yet,
but you can queue your
presentation if you need to.
Pass through "starting up" and we
get to "waiting." This means that
the other party is not accepted yet.
So this is where you would play a little
animation that would show that your slide
show is about to begin or something.
And then it switches to active.
The animation in iChat
is going to happen.
Content will start being displayed.
And your callbacks will start
to be getting called back.
And then we switch through shutting down.
And it's either going to go back to not
available or back to available again,
which is the more likely case.
OK.
So let's talk a little bit more in
detail about the video callbacks.
As I mentioned,
there are two types of callbacks.
We've got OpenGL ones if you're
already doing your drawing in
OpenGL and pixel-based buffer
callbacks if you're already drawing,
say, in NSViews or something like that
or if you're using Core Image.
Implement which is most
suitable for your application.
We can make gains in efficiency if
you're already drawing in OpenGL.
We can keep the content on the
card as we move it over to iChat.
So callbacks, as I mentioned before,
are called from a background thread,
so you'll need to do
synchronization if you need to.
If you need to render on the main thread,
like if you don't have
threaded OpenGL rendering,
you can use perform
selector on main thread,
wait until done.
Now you need to make sure that you
finish your drawing quickly since
conferences run at about 15 FPS,
and they'll vary.
So you need to render at about
30 FPS to get a good performance.
There's also a timeout which will
disconnect misbehaving clients.
If your application hangs or for
whatever reason you don't return in time,
the presentation will
automatically start,
excuse me, will automatically stop,
and the client will be disconnected.
Okay, so let's talk about the
pixel buffer-based callbacks.
These are the ones that you would use
if you're drawing into NS views or
using Core Image to do some compositing.
There's two callbacks
you need to implement,
one to specify what pixel format you'd
like and one to do your rendering.
So for the pixel format callback,
this is called when you first set
yourself as a data source and you specify
what format you'd like your pixels in.
This could be like 24 RGB or 2VY if
you're doing video frames of some sort.
Or you can use my favorite pixel format,
which is 32 ARGB for OpenGL type stuff.
So for the pixel buffer
rendering callback,
there are a couple things
that you need to keep in mind.
First of all is that the buffers can
change size on a per callback basis.
So you need to always check to make
sure that you've got the right size for
your buffers before you draw into them.
It's called from background threads,
so do your synchronization.
And don't retain the pixel buffers.
Core Video works with these
things called buffer pools.
And a frame comes out of the buffer pool,
it's handed off to an application
to perform something to it,
and then it's returned.
And you never touch it again.
So here's a little bit of an example.
This is a minimum implementation,
if you will.
This would be implemented
on your data source,
so whatever object is doing your drawing.
So I'm picking the 32 ARGB format.
It's a lovely format.
And then we get to the
render callback here.
And I use some CV core video
calls here to lock down the base
address of this pixel buffer.
Do my drawing, unlock,
and return yes to signify that
there's a new frame available.
Optionally, you can also return no.
So this is an optimization we've added.
For example, if you're doing a slide show
and your content is static
for great periods of time,
you can save some cycles by
not re-rendering the frames.
And we can do some compression efficiency
pieces to make compression work better.
So you just return no if nothing's
changed from the previous frame.
All right,
so now for the OpenGL callbacks.
These are a little bit more complex.
There's a bit more to set up,
but it pretty much works the same way.
So for callback setup,
you're going to pass in the context
and the pixel format object that
you'll be doing your drawing into.
So these hands-- we need this
information such that we can make
compatible backing buffers to pass to
your application when you do rendering.
So you'll pick your
format and pass these in.
This is called when you first set
the data source and they're going
to be retained by the framework.
To release them, you'll have to set the
data source to nil.
So you'll pick your
format and pass these in.
This is called when you first set
the data source and they're going
to be retained by the framework.
To release them, you'll have to set the
data source to nil.
You're probably going to need to do
the perform selector on main thread and
then wait until the main thread returns.
But you can do that.
So the next thing you need to
do is attach the buffer to the
context that you're going to draw.
You'll get a new buffer for each frame.
There's a pool of them in the background.
And we're going to pass you in
a screen context that is ideal.
You can use this as a
hint to do your rendering,
but you don't have to render
on that screen context.
And then we're going to ask
that you pass us back the
screen context which you used.
You can get the screen number from
the context object and you can
find it in NSOpenGL view header.
All right, so here's a little example.
So I've got my context in pixel format,
which I've created earlier.
I pass this off to when the
conference starts to do the rendering.
And I use this CV call to attach
the buffer to the context.
I do my OpenGL rendering and
return yes if there's a new frame.
And just like with the
pixel buffer callbacks,
you can return no if nothing's changed
from the previous frame for optimization.
So for the audio callbacks,
there's a couple of things.
We have a number of audio channels
method which you'll need to implement
if you're interested in doing so.
It specifies to the framework how many
audio channels we'd like to send you.
We'll mix them for you,
but you need to ask
for how many you want.
Again, we only support one
right now at the moment,
and we'll be expanding that.
And also, there's another callback that's
called when the conference starts,
which is provide audio
on device with UID.
So this is a core audio interface.
You'll need to check out the core
audio documentation for more details.
And again,
the provide audio on device UID is
called from the background thread.
Alright, so some of you may be looking at
this core video stuff and thinking,
that's a little bit hairy.
We're also thinking about
doing some high-level APIs on
NSOpenGL LView and NSView,
and we'd like to hear more
about that if you're interested.
There's some documentation on
the website you can check out.
I encourage you to also
check out the code samples.
We have a little photo player
example which I showed in the demo,
and then the OpenGL player
example which I showed you,
which is a multi-threaded
OpenGL application.
And come see us in the lab session.
Back to you, JP.
OK, so what did we learn today?
Well, we learned that Mikey's
favorite pixel format is 32 RGB.
I don't know what yours is,
but you can come and tell
us at the lab session later.
We talked about the
Instant Message framework.
We talked about the extended
Apple Script support
that we have in Leopard.
And we told you how your application
can take advantage of iChat Theater.
So if you want to know more,
please check our developer website.
Check also everything-- check
what is on the conference
website regarding this session,
session 124.
And again, I know I've said that before,
please come to the lab session,
meet the team,
ask all the questions you might
have about using iChat and how to
integrate it in your application.